Art first RC circuits example problem here we have a resistance of one kill ohm and a capacitance of
two micro Feraud.
What time is required for the capacitor to discharge 99 percent of its original value.
Her original charge.
I mean that really is the key right here.
You're doing a discharge case.
If you do a discharge you should remember that the charge is a function of time.
Remember it's some exponential decay.
So it really is some initial value multiplied by this exponential function and since it's a decay it's
minus T divided by R C was the time constant.
All right.
So we know what R is you know what the capacitance is is to micro Feraud what we need Knows What do
we do with this.
Ninety nine percent of its original charge.
So if the original charges zero how much charge do you have left if you've discharged 99 percent.
So what you should know is that the charge that we have now is really only 1 percent Leffe.
So it's one over a.
Multiplied by the initial charge this is how much charge you have left if you've discharged 99 percent.
So now we simply substitute things into here.
And the same thing exponential of mine is t divided by r c.
Ok so now we can simplify this expression a little bit.
You can cross out the Q knots and now really what you're asking for now is what time.
So we're really looking for just this time over here we know everything else in this equation.
You simply have to isolate the time.
So if you take the natural log on each side the natural log of one over a hundred.
And this is going to be equal if you take natural log of an exponential you're simply left with the
argument.
Now you might think well isn't time going to be negative here from the right hand side of this equation.
Well actually it's not because natural log of a fraction will also give me a negative number.
So the last thing you got to do now is simply isolate the time and we're going to have an expression
now is simply going to be equal to minus R C multiplied by the natural log of one divided by 100.
Substituting everything we get.
Now just make sure you're working in S-I units here.
We're going to get minus one kill OAM is 1000 multiplied by two micro Feraud.
That's 2.0 times ten to the minus 6 is micro and multiply by natural law of 1 over 100.
All right so now you substitute the numbers in there.
What you get is that the time is equal to nine point two multiplied by 10 to the minus three seconds.
And that simply looks like $9.2 seconds.
You kind of a standard this charging a capacitor problem.
Hopefully you got that one.